faraja samuni has just been released
from an Israeli jail more than 6 months
after Israeli forces detained him near
his home in the Gaza
Strip surrounded by his family he
struggles to describe his
experience and what he says Palestinians
inside Israeli prisons continue to
endure I wish none of the detainees had
to go through interrogation it is
nothing but utter torture total torment
may God help those detainees being
interrogated by the Israel's internal
security service tortured battered and
are genitals beaten verbally and
physically abused only God knows for
God's sake set them free and release
them from that
hell Gage describes conditions inside
the jail cells
they are unimaginable disease broke out
amongst the detainees around 30 are kept
in one cell our bodies are plagued with
abscesses mange Gang Green we were given
only one cup of rice per day a piece of
tomato and a piece of cucumber with a
small loaf of
bread these are some of the other 55
detainees who like farage were released
at two locations in the besieged Gaza
Strip on Monday morning I see he's ready
forces neither announced the operation
was happening nor coordinated with the
Red
Cross the condition of their bodies an
indication of what they have
endured show them brothers detainees
have worms parasites in their bodies do
something for them says one
man abscesses have grown all over our
bodies says
another we were left without soap or
water and only one quick bath every
week among the released men is head of
the ashifa hospital Muhammad Abu Salia
he was detained in November with five
other health workers while they helped a
un mission to evacuate patients from the
medical
facility even those who have been
detained for more than 10 years have
been deprived of their rights and many
were killed under interrogation many of
the medical staff arrested have been
denied food water and medson the
Israelis have no red lines they deal
with detainees like their objects not
human beings even the Israeli Medics are
involved in the
beatings the Palestinian prisoner
Association says there are around 10,000
Palestinians being held in Israeli jails
at least 3,600 of them have never been
charged with a crime or face
trial Israel says it abides by
international law in its treatment of
them the testimonies physical and
emotional scars of these men indicate
that's a lie Charles stford Al jazer
let's bring in now political commentator
AI Goldberg he joins us live from Tel
Aviv so Ari you may have been hearing
some of the testimonies of people that
were speaking to right now who've been
released by the Israeli occupation
authorities when you look at what the
United Nations Office of the High
Commissioner for human rights all right
I apologize it seems we've lost our
connection with
AI all right I'm I'm being told he can
hear us now so let me try again so Ari
hopefully you could hear the interview
we were doing there with some of the
people who've been released by Israeli
authorities very disturbing stories but
it's not the first time we're hearing
this back on December the 16th we had a
statement from the United Nations Office
of the High Commissioner for human
rights saying it had received what it
called numerous disturbing reports from
northern Gaza of ill treatment Mass
detentions enforced disappearances of
thousands of
Palestinians is Israel taking statements
from credible organizations seriously
when we hear what daines are still
saying months later upon their
release well uh I'm
afraid uh trying to ascribe any sort of
seriousness to Israel at the moment is
perhaps far-fetched um Israel's actions
as far as I understand them are quite
chaotic and even organizations that are
based on strict discipline don't exhibit
such discipline anymore um prisoners are
being taken obviously they're being
tortured
uh the purpose of this torture and the
information gleaned or the intelligence
used to help IDF uh forces as they
operate in Gaza these are questionable
uh Because the actual nature and purpose
of ID the idf's operation in Gaza is
questionable the issue here is operating
without any Clear Vision of uh say as it
as previously of
eliminating not going to happen this was
what's happening now is all
sorts operations aimed
at but with no regard to what
is calling collateral damage and taking
uh of in horrible conditions is part and
parcel of this quote unquote
strategy part of what we're also hearing
from people being released is about
these claims that some of the medical
facilities like a shiffer were being
used for military purposes something
those doctors deny an analysis by The
Washington Post on December the 21st of
found that there was little proof it
said of any tunnels under a shiffer
leading to a Hamas command and control
center something that Israeli
authorities had spoken
about what do these increasing
testimonies add to the picture of the
The credibility of Israeli claims when
they say look we we had to intervene in
these medical institutions because they
were command and control centers for
Hamas
Fighters well they make Israeli claims
appear um highly let's call it
problematic uh tunnels are to be found
all all over underneath Gaza that's
that's apparently a given but the
headquarters and the notion that um if
you Vis if you uh take these
institutions if you occupy them if you
arrest the staff you will find these
headquarters and then you will be able
to uh harm hamas's ability to act you'll
be able to limit it to minimize it these
claims I think uh have been proven to be
mendacious repeat repeatedly uh alifa we
have to remember was one of the biggest
PR efforts of Israel's uh campaign in
Gaza it was supposed to be even as far
as the victory image when when the
headquarters underneath asifa were to be
revealed that was when Israel at least
that was what we thought then that was
when Israel would announce that the
mission had been accomplished that of
course did not happen one can only
assume uh I think one of two things or
perhaps both of them one is that again
Israel has intentionally focused
exclusively on the Tactical level of
locating non Hamas operatives that means
that if one person or another actually
stayed in a hospital operated from a
hospital met other known operatives at a
hospital the hospital was was fair game
it's a very very tactical approach I
definitely think it characterizes a
large part of IDF operations but the
second option which again I think is
very much a real one is that Israel has
uh taken it upon itself to uh eliminate
or destroy as much of the infrastructure
in the Gaza Strip that makes it livable
hospitals universities right or if I
could jump in you know I'm sure you
remember the icj has ordered that Israel
allow fact finding missions to go in
there and
investigate are you hopeful at all any
sign that Israel will comply with that
so we can get to the bottom of
allegations like this uh keeping in mind
what even the history of how Israel has
dealt with allegations and
investigations even by its closest
allies like Josh Paul from the US state
department talking about how when he
received reports of the rape of a
13-year-old
boy and when he put these to Israeli
authorities he said the next day he says
the IDF went into the offices of the
charity organization that had passed the
state department this information
removed all their computers not only
banned the organization but declared the
charity organization a terrorist entity
how much hope does that leave one that
Israeli authorities will allow credible
independent
investigations I'm afraid to say that my
answer is absolutely no hope at all s uh
Israeli policy has been very consistent
Israel does not allow outside
investigations Israel at most uh
acknowledges and error and then um
promises that it will investigate
independently uh us uh I mean we here in
Israel know that that is not the case
Israel claims that its legal system uh
operates independently and investigates
uh such claims against IDF operations
that is emphatically untrue Israel does
not carry out these investigations if it
does they are lip service only it
doesn't convict it doesn't follow
through it doesn't gather data uh and
and if Israel doesn't do it the notion
that Israel would allow some sort of
outside authority to do it is um as far
detached from reality as it can
be thank you so much for your thoughts
and Analysis on that Ari Goldberg there
political commentator thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz